I start every student off regardless of
their previous experience with learning
how to maintain good posture while
running the quality of your posture has
a direct influence on your running
efficiency it is the cornerstone of the
Chi running technique and crucial to
building strong core muscles good
posture is a straight line that runs
between your shoulder your hip bone and
your ankle bone we will call this
straight line your column having good
posture can help your body in four big
ways first you create a central axis
around which your body rotates as you
run your column is also the axis around
which your shoulders and hips rotate
while you run the grace and efficiency
of your running depends on how well you
can use your central axis as a center
around which everything moves second
when your posture is aligned properly
your body weight is supported by your
bones ligaments and tendons not your
muscles this will significantly reduce
your workload while running third your
Chi or lifeforce energy can flow more
easily through a straight column
energizing your whole body while you run
and forth when your body is aligned with
the direction you're headed you become a
highly efficient runner because there's
less wasted motion in your gait here's a
demonstration of how your posture
affects your movement try this exercise
it will show you how your posture
affects your muscle usage stand with
your best posture and walk in place by
lifting your legs
feel how minimal your muscle usage is
now bend slightly at the waist and do
the same exercise can you feel the
increase of work going on in your quads
and lower back the further you get away
from a straight line the more work your
muscles have to do
[Music]